Morning
folks. How's it going?
So, today we're going to be working on
drone stuff.
One second Yeah.
All right.
So, let me uh let me talk a little bit
about
the plan for today.
So, I've been doing a little bit of
robotics work
and I made a couple small discoveries in
the process of that. Um,
specifically around continuous reward
functions.
And actually, I kind of realized that
these are going to let me do these are
going to let me make some pretty cool
drone demos.
Uh, if I'm correct.
Welcome, Magid. Give me your ex profile.
Juarez 5341.
It's linked everywhere. It should be
linked on Twitch and like all the
channel should be linked everywhere. But
here I'll put it there. Anyways,
we'll do the explanation of the specific
technique for reward functions in a bit.
Uh, I think for now I'm just going to
start pranking on the new Sim to test
this Enough.
Okay.
Oh yeah, we also one other thing. I did
run some experiments overnight.
Uh 2048 needs more experiments. It looks
like it kind of found a couple things.
And neural MMO, this is the more
interesting one. So, I had never gotten
this thing to train stably at uh
at a high gamma before, but increase the
gamma just to see.
And this looks like it's doing pretty
well.
We're going to have to wait to see how
the slope compares to the other
experiment longer term, but so far this
is looking good.
Okay. But I'm all uh I'm sick of like
running fiddly little experiments. So,
what we're going to do today is we're
going to build the new drone out.
This is going to be
very similar here. Uh we want to divide
this number
let's say 64
each.
What's that? Is that 32?
4 * 32 I believe.
Oh no, I'm dumb. Time 16
going to be 16 M's.
We'll have 64 agents each
and we can leave the rest of these as
is.
What's your new discovery about
continuous space? It's a little bit
technical.
I'll describe that in more detail uh
once I've been uh well once I actually
get into building the end. Welcome Sam.
We're doing drone things today.
You guys have any idea on what drone I
should get you by the way? Are you
calculating num
just the number of environments you want
to run
and what's the impact
I'm usually computing based on a target
total number of agents. So if I want
there to be like eight environments with
a,024 agents each, right? And then I
want to have 64 agents per instance,
then I need 16 instances per process. 16
* 64 is,024 * 8 processes is 8192.
Not sure if you saw it, but I sent a
paper yesterday.
Most people do inference on board.
Okay, so we can possibly do inference on
board. I actually do wonder if we could
do inference on board on CPU and like
cut down on parts and cost and weight
like a small policy
not 100% of the radio stuff if you make
sure that we can actually like if you
actually know that like yeah this is
probably like this should be we should
at least be able to like send commands
to this and we'll be able to get started
and you just say yeah like get this this
and this I will send those to you. to
send me the address and like the parts
send you creating an end from scratch. I
wouldn't say from scratch because um
really this is going to lean very
heavily on Sam and Finn's drone physics
and it's going to be deeply related and
my hope is that doing some of this stuff
is also going to give us some insights
uh on how to structure rewards for their
tasks as well.
Excuse
me.
This works.
Video modules are hundreds of pounds.
Hundreds of pounds,
grams or pounds.
It's going to need to have like a decent
CPU is the only thing. It can't be like
an Arduino
uh processor. But my hope is that like a
decent CPU should be easier to get than
um
well I to be fair I don't know. You'd
have to do some timings, right? Like
let's say that we're going to run like a
128 dim uh policy.
Oh, pound. I see.
Europeans and your fancy units.
So yeah, I mean the thing is Sam, like I
will actually send you a drone that's
like several hundred pounds. Um
that's fine. The thing is it's like it's
way better if we get a cheaper one for
the purpose of like then the final
result can run on a cheaper drone and
then we can spin that into something
bigger because like we can actually you
know there are lots of companies that do
this type of stuff but we if we can make
it work on like a very cheap drone
that's actually really really useful
right because then you can make
thousands of them or millions of them.
Okay, we don't need rings for this one.
Yeah. And I will be here doing drone
stuff for most of the day. So,
I'm not editing your environment, by the
way. This is a new So, I'm not messing
up your stuff with the rings.
I'm just doing something separate. I
think we're going to get like a drone
physics module or whatever. We'll just
take like all the drone physics like put
it into a like a standalone.
Use it wherever.
Hey Dia.
Hi Joseph. I completed my computer
science bers from top tier institute
1.5 years experience as a software
engineer.
Several past months I've deep dived into
the field of ML RL
complete theory. Well, that makes one of
us because nobody really understands the
RL theory. implemented PPO
by Peter Walker and understood multiple
papers
and implemented
basic policy gradient stuff
basic policy grad play agent for connect
XLE
that looks like you've gotten a pretty
darn good start in RL
I don't know if this cut the rest of
your message off or if you have a an
objective here
that seems like you've goten a pretty
solid start.
You've done things absolutely the hard
way,
mind you. Uh we have like we've got some
stuff that would make a lot of that a
lot easier for you.
Fin still at work will be half the manh
hours.
theoretically solid and having
implemented
few agents from scratch. Now I want to
collaborate with people working in this
field, work on it full-time and
potentially publish a decent paper.
You're in the right spot for that.
Exploring the field of sample efficient
RL multi- aent systems where multiple
papers have been published in the past
few months. Those are going to be two
completely different areas
at this stage. Cold mail professors
collaboration are providing. Yeah,
absolutely. And I literally did that as
a high school student
and like it worked.
So yes, you can absolutely do that. If
you're looking to learn more stuff
though in RL, we kind of have all this
open source going on at Buffer and there
are a heck of a lot of things that you
can learn around here. I can tell based
on your message that you're almost
certainly running things like a thousand
times too slow and it's really really
hard to make research progress when
stuff is running that speed. This has
actually been like the main breakthrough
that we've made in Puffer in the last
year is now like everything is actually
fast and stable and stable and sane. So
with your background, you'd actually be
pretty well positioned to start doing
some of the research side stuff around
here. It's all open source, so you're
free to publish whatever. Um, I might be
able to help you get in touch with a few
different PIs as well. I'd have to see
more about like the type of stuff that
you're able to work on and I'd have to
match that with like things that I know
other people are working on because the
number of academic RL labs that aren't
doing language models right now is
pretty small. Frankly,
Puffer is kind of like a open source
private lab. So, we actually do a lot of
this type of work here.
Huffer is going to be published at RLC.
I'll go present that in a few weeks as
well. Um,
publishing is not exactly our main
focus, mainly because I don't like
spending my time writing pubs, but you
are absolutely free to publish stuff on
um, any work you do around here if
you're interested in that as well.
I mean, as for my own background, right,
I did I finished my PhD up at MIT like a
year ago, a little over a year ago now.
I still have some connections.
I think we'll just do
this thing have like a tick parameter.
Yes, it does.
When is RLC?
Well, I actually still have to register
for it, but it's in Canada. Um,
University of Alberta.
August 5th through 9th.
So yeah, pretty much my plan here is I'm
here for another couple weeks and then I
go to California for like two, three
weeks and then I go here and I go back
to California for a
Yeah, I'm scripting.
Okay.
Ring draw
cylinder.
If you've typed anything else at DTN and
it hasn't showed up here, then I haven't
seen it for reference.
Sometimes X eats your messages.
Okay, so this seems to work.
So now we got to do a few things. We got
to make this multi- aent to start with.
like add and numb agents.
Yeah, we probably want to make a drone.
Yes.
Type the message twice, but it's not
displaying. X is a little bit janky. Um,
here. Are you on our Discord
public?
discord.gg/tuffer.
This is also where we do all our
research.
Sometimes X just like drops stuff with
either links or long messages or too
many messages. It's like it's just
weird.
Okay. So, we do need to enit now this we
do
phone.
So, basically what I'm doing here, um,
for folks who haven't seen the drone
stuff before,
Finn and Sam put together this nice
physics sim for, uh, a quadcopter,
and they have this nice demo. So, it's
on the website where it flies through
various rings and we're generally
looking for like
more stuff we can do with this. And then
uh we're also going to try to put it on
real hardware, but you know that takes a
while to figure out. So, we're doing
some more sim stuff in the real time.
And one of the uh in the meantime, and
one of the things I'm trying to do at
the moment is see if we can get like
swarms, which I've done separately, but
not with like reasonable physics. So,
I'm going to try to put together like a
nice multi- aent drone version of this
that we can use.
So, the idea is we'll have like a few
different drone demos.
Fine. This fine.
We're all fine.
Okay. So, the only other thing I believe
is that we have to do this chunk of
logic right there, right? The rest of it
is pretty good.
This chunk here.
How reasonable would it be to convert
this agent into a mathematical
expression?
symbolic regression. Not reasonable at
all.
You're like never going to get closed
forms for any of this type of stuff.
It's all numerical.
You're not going to like particularly
given that we're parameterizing the
agent by an LSTM, you're not going to
have like a closed form.
You're just not going to have a closed
form for something like that.
Yeah. Does this make any sense?
End of actions.
A box.
That's a bug.
Oh, wait. Clamp
or.
Ah, I see.
Sad.
But maybe it could be converted. It's
not particularly sad because we like
we're actually able to solve these
things incredibly well now.
I mean, like, you can take like the most
trivial possible task in RL and be and
try to like you can try to throw as much
math as you want at it and it just
doesn't work. But check this out.
Okay, like here's a super basic task,
right?
Just pong. Super super basic task,
right? This is a random agent playing
it.
This is how long it takes us to train an
agent just locally on the same machine.
Okay, it's done.
There's your agent.
So RL used to be this highly empirical
thing that didn't work and now we've
turned it into this highly empirical
thing that actually works pretty
consistently.
You think AI is overrated, overhyped in
general,
about RL specifically? It doesn't seem
like huge breakthroughs have occurred RL
recently, but maybe I'm just
underinformed. It's simultaneously
overhyped and underhyped. I think it's
the like LLMs are literally going to
solve everything next year. Like that
type of stuff is no, that's not
happening. But AI is actually
It is the thing I'm the most excited
about and I do think we can solve like
everything with it at some point.
Probably not with just LLMs. Uh as for
breakthroughs in RL, you haven't been
watching Puffer apparently because we've
made massive breakthroughs in the last
year, even in the last few months.
We literally have made the whole process
of doing research in RL a thousand times
faster.
We've taken it from this horrendously
messy thing where PhDs and RL can't
really do anything and don't understand
what's going on to something where now
we have like brand new people actually
actively contributing productively to
our research and literally able to do it
from their home desktops.
We have better algorithms. We have
thousandx faster simulations. We have
like 25 different environments that we
can use for research. We have scaled
results where we train on a literal
pabyte of data on one server. We have
all sorts of things.
Welcome Sorry.
I don't know what's wrong with my
fingers.
Can't type today.
Can you make it so I can send links
here? I don't if you know that there's a
if you know where the setting is in
YouTube. Yes. I've looked for it
multiple times and I haven't been able
to find one. It's like some default link
filtering crap that YouTube does.
I do have Discord up on the side
monitor.
Welcome, Major
What about using RL in a real life
application?
It's been used in fusion, uh, data
center pooling, chip design,
driving, been used in a lot of
applications. It's just scattered around
a bunch of areas that you don't hear
about.
Alpha Fold is not a children's game
either. AlphaFold is like actually
powering advancements um
in uh in computational chemistry and bio
right now.
And these are not like children's games
at all either. Like literally the
decision-making problems in all of those
are way harder than the vast majority of
what's happening in LLMs right now.
Here's the thing. People see that RL is
used in games and then they think it's
just like for games. The reason we use
games is because they're interpretable.
There's a very long history of AI using
games for research. And it's because
it's a heck of a lot easier for us to
understand what is going on throughout
the research process with something
interpretable like a game. That is why
we do it.
The tech is completely general.
like we throw the exact same thing on a
drone or a robot or whatever and it
works just the same. And we've seen this
repeatedly.
Radio Master Ranger Micro Module.
Press
R. Press LRS.
Like I said, Sam, you put me, if you put
me together the links of this stuff, I
will just send you the hardware and I
will send me the hardware as well and we
can both hack on it.
Why no RL for writing code or doing
math? Because you have to think about
what that entails. Okay, so
reinforcement learning is good at
complex, fiddly, unintuitive
optimization problems where you have a
fast sim.
That's what it's best at.
you have some sort of interactive
environment that you can run really fast
to generate lots of data. The problem is
really unintuitive and not like human
coded language is not that. So RL is
being used right now in LLM for post
training. But the thing is we can't do
this type of stuff here because that's
like 10,000x plus the amount of compute
that you
they're using very similar algorithms
though. In fact, arguably they're using
even simpler, more primitive algorithms
in RL than what we are using here.
So my focus isn't like how do we use RL
to write code? Everybody else is already
doing like language model crap on that,
right? It's like how can we use RL to
solve all of those unintuitive processes
that language models will never solve
ever.
And the proof of that is quite simple as
well. By the way, if language models are
like general reasoning things and
they're meant to like reason roughly
kind of like humans are sort of, uh,
humans can't solve any of these
optimization problems, right? They're
like all sorts of like fiddly
configuration problems all over the
place. And it's just like you can't do
it.
You need to learn through interacting
with the SIM and RL does it instantly
out of the box. Like flying like this
drone simund something thousand
parameter network learns in seconds.
one GPU.
Starcraft 2 bot and the Super Smash
Bros. bot. They play patterns, they
learn. It's looking really strange.
Well, the Super Smash Bros. bot is not
superhuman, right? Unless I've unless
there's been a newer one. Um, Alpha Star
is actually super human. So, you can't
say it just plays weird if it's just
better, right?
They're not meant to play like they're
not trained to play like humans play.
They're trained to beat you.
They don't feel like they have any
understanding. How can you say that it
has no understanding if it beats you and
it beats everybody else at the same
game?
same for the Dota bot.
It's just a mechanical optimization.
They're rate limited. They can't just
spam but they cannot spam buttons at max
possible rate. Superhuman.
That's part of both of the works of
Alpha Star and of Dota.
Offline RL working with data instead of
simulation to reality. So a better word
for offline RL is not RL. While FL RL is
just straight up supervised learning, it
literally discards the most important
fundamental part of RL
mechanical like I don't know what it
means like just a mechanical
optimization. I mean if it's if just a
mechanical optimization does the task
better than any human does then you can
say that it's like okay like it's not
actually understanding stuff but then
you have to also say that the humans
also don't understand anything right
episode return and length.
Beating a human is equivalent to having
a more conceptual understanding in the
task. Uh if you have it depends it's not
going to be one to one because they're
going to understand certain things. So
like humans might understand certain
aspects of the task more, but the bot
inarguably understands other aspects of
the task better and is able to beat you
using them. So if you remove all the
rate limits, right, and you make it like
literally able to make uh like
millisecond precise precision actions
constantly, then no, it kind of just out
mechanics you.
But especially in something like Dota,
which is a lot less of a snappy game
and it's rate limited. Yeah. It just
understands the game better.
It's also super human at team like at
team play in a way that like humans
fundamentally cannot be.
And that's not cheesing it either.
That's like that's a fundamental
capabilities improvement over humans.
It's like you would have to have one
person playing all of the champs and it
still wouldn't work.
like anywhere near as well.
A Dota is my favorite result in the
field by a mile. like so so so many
things in RL like they all come from
Dota
what looked like a complex task just
mechanical Dota isn't very interesting
then you don't understand the game
simply put
the decision making that like the
decision making that RTS's and MOBAs and
stuff involve is like orders of
magnitude more complex than a lot of the
decision- making in like real world
processes that we care out.
It's just a lot of the real world
processes, right? Nobody's bothered to
write good Sims where nobody's rather
rather like nobody's bothered to even
write all the data down in a good way.
Use this ability at this point in time
after that's not how the games work at
all.
Have you actually played any of these?
like because if you have you will
immediately get smashed and like
understand very very quickly that these
things are very complicated problems.
In fact, not having enough respect for
the complexity of games is one of the
most fundamental mistakes that I see a
lot of RL researchers make and a lot of
the reason why they repeat the same old
mistakes for years upon years.
It's probably been one of my greatest
advantages in research is understanding
this.
Like so many researchers, they'll like
they'll disrespect the Dota result
because it's a game, for instance. And
then they will go like onto some
robotics problem or even like some basic
real world sim problem and they'll say,
"Oh, this is a real problem. We need
real algorithms now." and they'll spend
months and months and months developing
crappy algorithms that don't even make a
difference when literally just doing the
exact same thing from Dota would solve
the problem immediately. We've seen it
over and over.
I can't understand how PO works so well.
I mean, it's just it's policy gradients
with a clipping term to prevent you from
going off policy and generalized
advantage estimation for credit
assignment. Those are the things you
need to understand to understand PO.
What's that?
Think how we do this here.
Part of the problem with RL is that
basically learns the optimal strategy
within a particular environment. Change
means the gamer environment doesn't
generalize those things.
Yeah, that's not true at all either.
And to the extent which it is true, it's
also true of humans. So it's irrelevant.
I mean you can look at like any of the
things in domain randomization. You can
look at stuff like Xland where you have
like combinator like a recombinant
solutions to problems not seen. There's
so so many counter examples. Heck just
the fact that no game of Dota is the
same as any other game should be enough
to like show you that. But again like
you can see this in other areas that you
would have more intuition about as well.
being better at the game,
more like it explored more space in a
shorter time frame.
If you're defining things in this way,
then you've made the term understanding
irrelevant.
If being better at the thing doesn't
imply that you understand it better,
then it's like it's the concept of
understanding as you've defined it is
completely irrelevant.
Humans may play at a high level with 1%.
This is again like this is a complete
this is like a false dichotomy
completely. Humans are not tabularasa.
Okay, humans. You put a human in front
of a screen, they already know how to
play the game, at least basically
without having ever touched it. That's
not learning. That's baked in.
That's baked into your visual prior. The
game is literally intended for you to
play it the way that you want. Look, I
can take all the graphics in the game. I
can swap them with random assets that
make no sense. I can have humans fail
catastrophically with any amount of time
that you give them to play this game.
they will fail horribly. And guess what?
The RL will learn exactly as well as
before.
I mean, I've heard all of these
arguments, right, over the years, and of
course, I'll entertain them. And I like
the thing is that
I've seen so many researchers go down
these paths and they waste years. They
literally waste years on dumb problems
that don't matter because they do not
understand this.
And the funny thing about this is like
the things that I'm describing to you
here don't even require like a ton of
mathematical sophistication to
understand. Uh they don't require you
like years of research experience. They
require you to read a single digit
number of papers and learn a small
amount about the tasks that uh actually
were solved in some of these major
experiments. That's it.
Well, I'm not It's not that I'm mad.
It's just like h
it irritates me to some extent because
like these are literally arguments that
I've dealt with from academics during my
PhD for years. Uh and they went on to do
nothing in the field by the way.
Precisely nothing. like none of the
fancy algorithms that came out of these
uh these arguments got anywhere.
It's because of like there's this
fundamental lack of understanding of the
implications of some of these like some
of these larger results and what they
mean about the direction for research. I
mean literally the like the center point
of what I've done in the last year is
just to make everything fast and then
rerun a bunch of the old experiments but
actually do them with good science
because we can actually run enough
experiments to draw meaningful
conclusions
and like literally just the small
changes that resulted from that have
made a completely different field. Like
if you try to like solve something with
puffer now versus with SB3 it is a
completely different field.
So, I try to steer people away from the
path where it's like you're just not
going to have a good time for a whole
bunch of years
uh until you eventually come around.
Hey, DVD, what am I building here? I'm
building uh a drone environment here.
The goal is to get a whole bunch of
different drones in this sim to fly
around in a sphere without colliding.
This should be done today as well. Yan,
I saw you completed 248. looks really
good. Happy to see it on the website.
Yeah, that actually ended up being a
ridiculously useful research
environment, Yanick. Uh, so thank you
for that. I actually have some quite a
quite a few follow-ups to do on that.
The model on the website gets a little
bit over 2048 average. By the way,
used a lot in research that's why I
built it benchmark
see the indiv implementations work glad
to see it get 240 had a few struggles we
get it running into amazing torture all
boats so Yanick I literally uh I have it
running with the default model without
even the comm's model
takes quite a bit longer
But it actually solves the game with
that. I keep more of an open mind. Know
what the truth sometimes I wonder these
questions are just questions. No, you're
good. So the thing is there's some
context here that you're missing, right?
I've been doing this stuff since like 20
or whatever. Uh and basically from 2018
until maybe 2022 when most of the
researchers went off to do language
models. um you constantly get these
types of arguments from academia and
they're all circular and they were
actually used to gatekeep a lot of the
really important engineering that needed
to happen in RL. Uh so basically nobody
did it and uh academia kind of dug its
own grave in RL. So you asked why like
there hasn't been a ton of progress in
RL. It's basically because the entire
field decided to collectively to focus
on dumb [__] that didn't matter,
provably didn't matter. uh write
hundreds of papers that went nowhere and
then give up and I'll do LLMs.
That's like a not even uncharitable
description of what happened to our
field.
And it irritates me because RL is really
cool and it's really powerful. Like
there's nothing else like it where you
can just solve stuff in 30 seconds out
of the box uh in the way that we can
now.
And it sucks that like
pretty much a good chunk of the field
just died because none of this stuff was
possible until a year ago. And what was
required to make this possible? A
completely different perspective to the
one that you described.
That was what was required.
So much so that I literally couldn't
even do it in academia. I have I had a
very supportive adviser. Basically let
me do whatever. But still within the
confines of academia, it was just
impossible to do it the way that it
needed to be done in order to dig
ourselves out of this hole.
Wow. Usually I got nams. Did you do one
hot encoding? Nope. I literally just
threw all your data into the neural net.
Isn't that funny?
So I did the dumbest possible thing and
it still solved the game.
The only thing I was wrong about is it
did actually take quite a while. Uh I
trained it for like five billion steps.
But the next plan is I'm actually going
to run like a big hyperparam sweep over
this because there really aren't that
many tasks that take billions of steps.
So I'm actually kind of curious how much
uh to what extent this is like
architecture like model capacity hyper
prams and other stuff
you're passionate I commend you on your
work. I mean I got to be man I've been
doing this stuff like this has pretty
much been my sole focus since
halfway through undergrad.
Now the cool thing is like
before basically I would make these
sorts of arguments you know around the
arguments that I would make would be
things like hey our base algorithms are
actually pretty good. We need better
environments to study things need to run
faster. We need to be able to handle
like more interesting types of tasks
right to evaluate stuff on. Uh, and this
really didn't go very far, but the thing
is now I've actually built all this
stuff and it's powered all of the
advancements that we've made.
Love to see a hyper pram sweep. I did
it, Yanick. I did it overnight for you.
I think I need to run it for longer,
though.
So, the best score that this gets
The best score that this gets is about
in 200 million steps.
So, I think I need to like run the sweep
where the minimum time is like a billion
or something
and see if it solves from there.
individual M's run for a very long time.
Running right happens in the last few
steps.
We have M's that are longer horizon than
that though
and that have way worse reward signals.
what I did here. I must not have been
paying attention
on drone.
For some reason, I thought this was
going to be much quicker to do,
but no big deal. This should make the
sim multi- aent,
and then we can work on adding the new
reward function in.
You use search, you get a ridiculously
high score.
2496 is above human average.
It's still slow by puffer standards.
Should be able to do better.
So, this is why it's a research end,
right? I'm going to like keep I plan on
like adding a few different experiments
in with this
Howdy from work. Hello Finn. Welcome
issue with the web controls.
Take a look at that. Yeah, that would be
helpful. I don't know why you can't
control it on the web for some reason.
How efficient is transfer learning and
RL for a enabling agents to adapt to new
games using prior knowledge. Not at all
effective.
Yeah, basically not effective at all.
I mean, the reason is pretty obvious as
well. Like you're basically asking, hey,
if I pre-train imageet on just cats,
how effective is that to transferring to
identifying houses?
Not how transfer works.
What I do here?
Initialize trail buffer.
Yeah.
Do we want to be able to get video from
the drone back to the controlling PC or
do we want only want
sending commands?
We're going to need to be able to get
video somehow to debug it, right, Sam?
Because we're going to have to do at
least some sort of basic perception
stuff.
cuz it seems like you need a separate
receiver for each. Lovely.
Okay.
This is just all like the work needed to
make this thing multi- aent.
drone project open for collaboration.
Yeah, I mean pretty much everything here
is
we're generally just trying to figure
out how to get like good drone stuff. Uh
good drone sims and good uh interesting
drone behaviors in Puffer.
So Sam and Finn wrote the initial
physics sim. I've been using it for a
few things. I'm trying to add this
multi- aent component now.
And then there's also the idea of trying
to get it on real hardware.
Okay, we're almost done with the boring
bits here.
Almost done.
Once we at least can just have like the
initial environment
but have um all the different drones
flying around in it. It's actually not
that hard to uh make the new like steer
reward function and stuff from there.
Observation changes maybe a little
difficult.
You will see.
And I'm sure that trail path is wrong,
but whatever.
grab something to eat. Partless nearly
ready. Awesome.
Okay. No agents.
Here
we'll have to change
the instantiation.
What?
The heck?
Oh yeah, observation size changed,
right?
What did I do here?
Oh, trail length.
I like that.
Hey, look at that.
Obviously, we need to change some stuff,
but we have four drones.
See,
that is progress.
progress.
Let me grab some coffee real quick. Just
rest and all that. I'll be back in a
few. And then what we'll do is we will
actually see if we can get four drones
uh four drones training first just to
like go to the center or whatever.
And then we'll get like I don't know 64
drones or something to fly in a sphere.
And I think that'll be really cool if we
can make that work. Right back.
Okay.
Wondering why I'm so tired today. And of
course I know why I'm tired. It's cuz I
was up
on with you all until like 10 something
last night.
freaking uh working on the robotics and
stuff.
Okay. So, let's fix observations.
So we now have
nine
13 observations.
Okay, we have 13 observations.
think of a good reward we can give them
real quick.
Just like a quick test reward.
model.bin is not in public GitHub.
Uh, did I forget to did I forget to
commit it? Love watching the bestest RL
streamer on YouTube. No one optimizes
weights better than you.
Welcome, Jub. Glad you're enjoying
I meant to commit the weight. So if I
didn't, it's cuz I screwed up.
Ah,
there you go.
Looking at cheat cheap tiny programmable
drones.
M5. Let me look that up.
M5 stacked
open-source programmable quadcopter.
Sure.
When it says programmable, does that
mean I can just run code on it or is
there like some dumb gooey?
How do I convert in general though?
Puffer export environment name-loadad
model path path to the.pt PT.
Remove that bot.
I program the bots around here.
This one is mediocre.
sensor
opt
something like this could work. It
doesn't have a camera though.
I think that we want like the thing that
we probably want to do initially is just
like run some really basic point
detection thing on a camera so we don't
have to deal with all these different
sensor types cuz like basically could we
get a distance sensor to work? Yes.
I mean maybe this is good. I don't know.
But like we're not going to be able to
do a race course with this, right?
Opflow. We wouldn't be able to make like
we wouldn't be able to write a sim for
this sensor. I'm pretty sure
An agile little thing.
Decent.
Welcome YouTube folks. We're doing drone
stuff today.
Drone has no observation.
Ah,
we have to change this a little bit.
Apparently, these Radio Master ELRS
transmitters things work with any drone,
but I don't understand why they're so
expensive and have active cooling. What
are they doing? What is so complicated?
No idea.
No idea. That's why I gave you the hard
job of figuring it out.
I think he uses this or something.
We'll get a quick electronics degree.
It's not that hard.
You kind of have to grind electronics a
little bit, but it's like it's I don't
know. Electronics is like a uniquely
easy thing to grind, if that makes
sense. I think the most hours I've ever
put into working on anything has been
when I was doing like I was doing a
bunch of electronics work when I was
like 16 or something and there was there
was like a 3day span like a 72-hour span
where I worked well over like 65 of
those hours and started like literally
seeing [__] But despite being in that
state, I got the project done.
In some sense, mentally, it was a good
break from all of the freaking math.
Uh, end of observations.
Electronics. Electronics is easy if you
stick to digital electronics or IC for
most tasks. Exactly.
Done some electronics before. It's a
pain, but you can always bang it out.
Yeah. You get into not as fun areas.
Yeah.
Heat.
Missing required keyword arg.
That should not be a required keyword
arg.
I deleted that as a required keyword.
Arg
video somewhere. Someone uses a PCB as a
drone chassis. Funny.
Huh?
My uh Oh, here's why.
Hey, it runs.
What's the most outrageous bug you came
across while programming? How long did
you have to work to fix it?
Honestly, the most outrageous bug I've
come across has probably been
suppressed. Uh,
I've probably mentally suppressed the
worst bug ever, but I don't even know.
The worst one recently was a contributor
decided to edit some of our core infra
uh using a like Gemini or Claude or one
of the LLMs without [__]
understanding it. Uh most of the PR was
fine, so I didn't notice, but there was
like a there was like a one duplicated
line change that could cause random SEG
faults like hours or days into training
that were indistinguishable
from hardware failures from the logs.
Uh, so I literally to fix that one,
I had to get a repro script that
basically involves searching over random
seeds until I could find something that
caused it deterministically to happen
within a few seconds.
I couldn't even like put print
statements or anything because it would
mess up the stack frame.
And like I eventually I managed to find
like edits to the code I could do that
would not mess with the stack frame so
much that it would still reproduce and
isolate it down to like the specific
chunk of code. And then I found out that
it was a uh it was accidentally telling
the garb the C implementation of
Python's garbage collector that it could
collect stuff before it should have been
able to. Therefore causing Python to
non-determinist well not
non-deterministically but to seemingly
randomly free something later on during
execution
and then the only error trace you would
get from that would be in the Python
internals. So completely undebugable.
That one sucked.
Automatic test. No automatic test would
have caught this.
No automatic test would have caught
this.
That was a shitty bug.
The particular contributor who uh
submitted that got flamed for a solid
half hour in Discord.
[Laughter]
Yeah, that one took me like a solid I
think two days straight to figure out
what the hell. And it disrupted like
hundreds of our experiments as well
over like the several weeks before that.
That was not fun.
So, pretty much
whenever we get these new hot shots,
they're like, "Oh, I'm going to learn
RL, but I'm going to use LLMs to
generate all my code." Like, no. Get
out. You will write your own damn code.
Welcome, Arn. How's it going?
We're working on drone things at the
moment.
Uh the logging is not working at all
here though.
Well, that doesn't look good now, does
it?
R drone is real time transmitting
actions instead of onboard compute a
good idea. Latency should be
um I thought about it for demo purposes
we could do either.
Uh eventually it will be better to have
it be on board.
So for demo purposes either
market is so messed up. Don't want to
drift away from research, but I'm not
being paid for the research. So, any
advice how to leverage everything?
Yeah, it's tough. I have like the same
thing, right, where like I'm running a
private research lab and like I'd like
to go do a whole bunch more deep
algorithmic work on the RL stuff I'm
doing,
but like ultimately I need to start
building out applications with this
thing.
It's a little tougher when you're just
doing something like as an individual
versus as a company. So with Puffer,
what I've tried to do, right, is I've
built out all this open- source stuff to
the point where now we have stuff that's
actually good and valuable enough that
it actually makes sense to hire Puffer
as a company. And it's actually more
valuable in many cases to hire Puffer
than it's just uh to hire just me
personally because with all the tools
that we've built and like the open
source stack, we can really really
hammer at problems better than any
individual person can uh without access
to these tools regardless of how good
you are at RL. Um, so I've kind of tried
to do something where
like all the research I do supports the
business,
but obviously there's still much more
work to be done here, right? Like I want
this to scale not to just like it funds
the operation. It should be able to be
something that's quite profitable. After
all, you know, it's a lot of hard work.
Um, and we're definitely getting there.
It's just going to be a matter of like
continuing to build the like the best
tech and then throwing it on valuable
applications. The drone stuff is part of
that.
That's part of it. Major. Yes.
You're a little directed EMP.
Can you even do that stuff without
setting off a
a nuclear device?
I want to see you monetizing all this
effort. Yeah, I mean we do have a couple
of clients. We have like completed jobs
as well,
but definitely not at the scale I want
it to be yet, right? This is very cool
tech. We should be able to, you know,
use this on all sorts of stuff. I mean
my long-term vision for this is really
to
uh revolutionize a lot of areas of hard
science stuff like materials really
important stuff in bio into automatic
like automating research via simulation
there is definitely interesting
there are like so many problems that
this stuff is applicable we just need to
like build it more and also get
ourselves into positions to be building
like more hardcore lower level sims
which we can do now. It's just that it's
a heck of a lot better to do that stuff
under contract so that you know you're
actually putting all this work into
something that's actually being comped
uh being comped. Well,
this is the thing I'm most excited about
too, AI and CS more generally in
natural. Yeah. So, Sam, that's
absolutely in the road map. We basically
we went through a whole bunch of
different applications,
right? Uh of like possible stuff that we
could throw this on as an initial like
larger app. And we have a few
candidates. Um but stuff like drones is
definitely going to be a much easier
starting point. Like I think that we can
honestly just steamroll pretty much
everything that exists in uh drones plus
AI in autonomy and drones with uh RL
and we should be able to spin something
large enough out like out of that that
we can pretty much just do whatever from
there. Take larger bets.
Recommend me a good book for DSA,
please, or any resources. You're
probably asking the wrong guy for that.
Um,
the Stanford CS 106x course is like,
okay, that's what I took. It's okay.
Honestly, like the most important stuff
to understand in like DSA is like an
array,
a mapping, which is a dictionary,
and then basic graph stuff like breath
first uh breath first search, depth
first search, and that stuff. Priority
cues occasionally come up.
Um
linked list like things occasionally
come up. It's about it.
heard of MIT courses which are public
are they worth it? Uh some of it depends
on the professor as with all
universities. So people have this idea
that like you go to Stanford, you go to
MIT, the courses are good. It's not how
it works. You go to Stanford, you go to
MIT, some of the courses are good
because some of the lecturers are good.
So you go to like MIT open courseware,
some of them are very good, some of them
are not.
Me and Finn want to get some papers out
soon, too. Maybe we do a drone one.
Yeah, that's all like we're good with
that.
Definitely good with that.
Let me see if I can get you this end
working. I want to make like I'm going
to try to get like a bunch of drones
flying in a sphere based on your
physics. I think we should be able to do
it pretty easily.
Yeah, Spencer.
I figured we should have multiple demos
for this stuff. Okay, so this is just
not respecting the out of- bounds for
some reason.
Take my leave. Got to study. Got laid
off. Rough one.
Yeah, unfortunately the job interview
process in software engineering is
really stupid.
Like people just ask you really dumb
questions.
It's like if you It's like on the level
of like if you give me um like my
freshman high school trigonometry exam
or whatever now, I'd fail it. It's not
cuz I'm like washed or dumb, right? It's
just like we haven't done any of that.
Like I haven't done that stuff in over a
decade. So kind of the same thing with a
lot of the software engineering
interviews. Very silly.
Oh, you have to reset the position. Duh.
Okay.
I have no idea what this reward signal
is.
Okay, this thing now is running at a
reasonable speed.
So not this
Okay. And we got to get the reward
structure in place, right?
So what I'm trying to do here is I'm
trying to in I'm trying to add the
structure of the rewards that I figured
out works well yesterday into the drone
m and that is specifically a delta
reward. The idea is given any like
state-based reward that says like this
is the best position so this is the
highest reward or like this is a bad
position this is low reward you just do
the delta of two rewards taken at
different points and then that gives you
an unhackable reward function
which is quite Yes.
spammed your DMs.
Latest AI phase 2 clinical trial shown
effective. Oh, so there's actually stuff
here for us to do, huh?
That's solid.
I will read all of the materials.
I will read all the materials
once we have a sphere of drones.
This is not it.
Wait, how is the cube drawn?
It is centered at 0 0
It's also possible I messed up the
physics at some point, right?
Try that next.
Doesn't look like it.
Rails are definitely wrong. Let's fix
that.
the heck.
Oh, I know what it is.
Yeah. So, they all have trails now, but
they're all wrong.
Yeah, this is just not indexed correctly
at all.
Shall we fix this?
rail out.
I'm going have to come back to this. Uh
let's see if I can get the learning
thing like the learning behavior working
at least.
Why would we why would this not work?
Like
we doing wrong There.
Okay, so this is a mess.
Yeah, this syntax will make it a lot
easier.
Okay. Well, that still doesn't work, but
let's see if we can at least get the
trails working.
better.
Okay. Okay, so now I guess the real
question is the thing we've been punting
on which is why doesn't it learn?
It's almost certainly a bug because it
be very very Is he?
It's clear it does not learn anything.
Yes.
This is Jay.
else
was actually a math screw up.
We'll see if this actually trains now
that this fixed.
somehow worse.
Not necessarily. Episode length is way
higher, right?
Not crashing maybe.
Very weird.
Very weird behavior.
very weird behavior.
Learning not to crash
to the uh the walls it looks like.
Right.
Math's not mathing most likely
or rewards not rewarding.
Uh they are crashing. They're just
crashing very slowly.
What have I screwed up here, man?
This is super basic.
Oh, wait. Hang on.
This is definitely part of it.
I think this is all of it. It could be.
Okay.
Interesting maneuver. Not what we want.
programming when tired is hard mode.
Yeah.
Well, it's kind of like I've mostly
woken up. It's just I messed something
up in the process.
Like this should be a very basic port,
you know.
reward function is right, isn't it?
This is your distance 0 and it's
negative
squared metric.
Well, okay.
Don't square your distance metric,
dummy.
Literally, just don't square your
distance forward.
My bad.
Okay. And this actually this tells them
all to like stay where they are.
Interesting.
This ends up being a hover in place
reward.
Let me think about that. Shouldn't
this end up being a go to center reward?
No.
Am I wrong?
Reset every 128, right?
fact that this is never positive, right?
thing.
They're just hovering in place.
What they observe
Last reward is equal to reward and the
rewards delta.
Okay.
original time steps.
It gave us a very different result,
didn't it?
That should have been easier to
optimize.
Something's weird.
sketchy in here.
Okay, so this works. There's like some
small instability,
but this produces the same result.
Cool. N plus hardware idea.
What do you got?
This is correct that this gets it zero
reward.
Maritime speedboats.
What do we
Who wants reinforcement learn speedboats
though?
What's that a thing for?
Like what what would like what would
that application be for?
Ah, okay. The drones couldn't see where
they were.
Yeah, that's what happened. The drones
literally just couldn't see where they
were.
Yeah, there we go.
So this is just them all trying to go to
the center irrespective of collisions.
add a pull request for small issues with
web interactions.
His key press didn't work on web.
Huh?
We use that in all sorts of environments
though
obstacle. Yeah, but who's doing
autonomous speedboats? Like what's the
application?
Key down is key down is not Isn't that
going to like repeatedly shuffle Yanick?
Like if you hold the key, it's just
going to repeatedly shuffle stuff, isn't
it?
Something screwy. Mcripton does weird
things sometimes.
Puffer end with Python is the same as
written in C.
Um, well, it's going to be like a 100 to
a,000x slower at the very least, but
like yes, you can write it in in Python.
Okay. So, we're going to now do the
spherical reward.
what this Yes.
Yeah, this training is like super
unstable. We have to re sweep, I think.
But
it fixes itself by the
and now it'll actually be able to see
its reward.
not super converged.
Are we thinking a 30 to 50 millisecond
delay?
Uh I think Sam that like if we get a
demo that is PC controlled first and we
do autonomous later that's fine.
Draw points along a sphere as targets.
Working on it, Spencer.
My LLM of choice reckons that this will
be fine for acrobatic movement, not
highspeed racing.
Um,
well, human pilots use an RC controller,
right? Do they have one that has lower
ping or something?
you fine? Yeah. Your LM of choice is
usually very stupid.
So, unless it's like a different
controller and yours is like, you know,
slower.
Your RL setup is actually ideal.
Yeah, dude. LMs are stupid. They're
real, real stupid.
Isn't it crazy how little investment
there is in RL compared to language
models? It's like, no, actually language
models, they're PhD level intelligence
and they're actually they're going to
solve all jobs next year.
Like, wait a second.
You guys are lying.
Not good. They will think of doing this
some other way.
Think I have a working setup.
Getting video back to the PC.
All good video receiver, but I can get
control working. Video should be one
extra part later.
Yeah, the main thing is the rings for
that, right? Like how we figure out the
rings. But yeah, if you have list, I can
just order stuff.
not guaranteed the cheapest for best.
That's fine. Yeah, that's all I was
looking for.
List
wrong with X.
Oh jeez. Comment.
Oh, holy.
Uh, I think this is like my best
article.
That's pretty awesome. I guess it just
blew up today.
Oh, yeah. Ton of follows from that as
well. very successful article.
It's always nice. I thought it hadn't
done very well yesterday and was kind of
bummed.
Okay. So we have
you have to get these from like a ton of
different sites, huh?
Dock's really flaky. I see
like this thing, right?
got out of stock.
Okay, we can get these.
These are the wrong size. These are 450.
They look bigger.
One asked.
quite generic.
Yeah, it's just most of them look out of
stock.
I can do like I can add a few of these
in.
But like the five, for some reason, you
can add a bunch of single pieces.
And you can't just get this stuff off
Amazon, right? I don't want these guys
to take like weeks to ship it to you.
That would be ridiculous.
Hang on.
Like is this the real thing? because
they have it says that this is this
looks like an official page.
Shipping is never worse than a week max.
tiny country.
It's on UK Amazon. Let me see.
There's a distinct lack of freedom on
the your links. The K links.
What uh what UK post should I give for
this?
See
if we can get him.
Yeah. Okay.
frame looks a bit flimsy.
They're supposed to be very hard to
break because the thing is they're
really light, so they can't really
collide with very much force at all.
I did not realize that is how your
Add the basket.
Why are they like quadruple marked up on
Amazon or triple marked up?
Oh, they're like they're resellers.
Resellers. Let's not do that.
Yes.
Yeah, it's like random brands basically
reselling them at triple.
But it's weird because I see him on the
US site.
I think I've ever ordered anything from
AliExpress.
They not just I don't know. Do they send
you [__] that actually works or is it
just ripoff stuff?
Okay,
site
from China though. Yeah, that's a pain
in the ass.
thing
bought from AliExpress or Alib.
Well, we don't want to get it from like
we want to get it ideally from the
original store because otherwise you get
all sorts of shitty knockoffs. Want to
deal with that?
I mean, I guess technically the sites
you sent me will work.
You can just order it directly from the
seller.
They have a UK site.
Okay. So, this one
this one from here. Yeah.
Then
Do you need multiple of these or what
are these?
Hey, what what exactly are these? Do
these go on the drone or do these go on
the
Is this like a plug it like a standalone
not plugged into computer or what?
What are you buying? Drone or battery?
Both.
These are like super tiny batteries.
For the receiver module when we use it
side without mains power. So it's a a
wall unit or something. It's not plugged
into laptop.
Yes. Programmable.
Imagine we're doing a
we have a bunch of projects around here.
Like I'm confused. Are these is this the
same sort of thing though as the drone?
Like do I need to get you a bunch of
these and a charging bank for this or
what? Whereas this one lasts longer cuz
it's just for a receiver.
They can definitely get these
this
we have this thing
transmitter.
Male to female jumper cables
like breadboard cables.
Okay.
So, jumpers. This thing
batteries
and this
connect. Okay.
sent me
boiler.
All right, let me see if I can not leak
this. Send this to you on the side.
Hope it works. I do as well.
It's just it's annoying when you It's
always annoying when you can't just get
everything off of Amazon.
I did this correctly.
No idea what that means. major.
I'll have some good brat worst Well,
Okay,
that's uh first one sent.
Can you sign into
Can I order Amazon Co. UK
from an a US Amazon account or no?
Hi friend, what's going on here? So, a
few things are going on here. We are
working on drone simulations.
Um, and then also at the same time here.
So, Sam and Finn have uh done a lot of
work on this. They're in the UK and I'm
figuring out how to send them a drone so
that they can like try to throw this on
the real hardware.
Make sure you include the seven digit
number.
Oh,
wait. on this second line.
Did I do this wrong? I put like the
number the university.
This going to work in Millet in Miltech.
Maybe
there are lots of things we can
potentially do with it.
For now, we're trying to just get drones
working.
Okay, this is not that bad cuz I can
just add you guys as a new address to my
Amazon.
that number.
Okay.
post code
Man,
Okay.
Order includes.
What items did I get you off of this?
Okay.
Oh yeah, it's just a thing.
Need these. Yep, that's fine.
Hey,
that.
Okay. So, that's two of three.
What's the last one? The last one is the
uh door FPV whatever thing, right?
This shenanigans
one
here. order you this stuff and we'll go
back to writing Sims.
They'll have weird postcodes
like it's it's not formatted the same
way.
Yeah, your postcodes are different from
ours.
See? Uh,
good.
Everybody wants you to pay with PayPal
as well. Like
All
right, screw it. Hopefully I've done it
right.
First two letters are the nearest big
city. That's cool.
Billing post code is not valid.
Not like there's a space.
So for some reason this is not taking
the post code.
Sometimes no space works. It doesn't
take that either.
If I misspelled something.
No.
Okay.
A billing postcode is not valid. Hang
on.
It's cuz uh it was doing my billing as
Oh, what?
Well, this is dumb. It doesn't let me
bill.
Yeah, this isn't going to work on this
if I do.
It doesn't let me bill.
Uh the door FPV site doesn't let me
build to the US.
So, it's not taking my card because it
doesn't let me. Yeah, it literally
doesn't let you though. It only lets you
build to UK or Ireland.
That's really stupid. Um,
does it work with PayPal?
No, because it still needs a billing
address.
Well, I can do I might be able to do
that. It depends whether it tries to use
the zip code for the card.
Let me try using your address.
It says that it went.
Let me see if I get any complaints from
my credit card provider.
Oh, I don't have alert set up on this
card.
Okay. Well,
your drone stuff has been ordered.
This thing is still getting traction.
That's crazy. This This is my best
article now, right?
Go by likes
or is the quick start guide higher? No,
this is literally my best article.
That's crazy. The clickbait, like the
loweffort clickbait article got more
views, but this is actually this is
cool.
Drone sim real coming soon.
We'll DM you any codes. Man, I hate
ordering stuff not off of Amazon.
It's always a pain.
is like always a pain. But there you go.
We can get back to dev.
But for folks watching stream, there you
have it. If you build things that are
cool, I may just send you hardware.
I'm much more likely to do it sooner if
it's orderable off of Amazon or at least
one site.
How do we sweep run for custom end using
importable API? There's just a sweep
function. It's the same as like train.
There a bunch of functions in there. You
can just call sweep.
Okay.
asks for end name then give it the end
name. Same as training
not registered anywhere.
What do you mean it's not registered
anywhere?
Oh yeah, of course I am.
How will it found my end?
Uh so it just it looks it'll call this
load config function and the load config
function will look inside of like config
whatever
to do that.
If it's a custom not and puffer then
you're going to have to do your own
config loading. But if you just want to
run a sweep on an existing end, it'll
look inside of its default config path
and you can overwrite. You can add stuff
after that
pass flags or whatever.
Amazon too much easier. Yeah.
Okay. How do we do this?
It's
Just draw a sphere.
We still need to make veans.
Yes, you still make a veans.
Cuz
a puffer m doesn't do multiprocessing.
Okay. So this is the sphere.
Just want to get them to fly around the
edges of the spe the sphere somehow.
The drones avoid each other. Not yet.
They Hell.
They need to be able to see each other.
So, let me fix that.
Now they get their delta to the nearest
drone that isn't them. The goal is kind
of like a school of fish. If you see the
nearest one and like spread out.
slightly better.
Yeah, I don't know why it does this
thing where they all like go to this
point immediately though, right?
Possible I have defined the uh the
objective wrong
seem likely honestly.
Oh yeah, I totally have. All right.
Okay. Yeah, this is obvious.
You're center to the external point.
Yeah,
we'll see if this does it.
Okay. So, let's make sure I did this
correctly, right?
So, this is vector to the agent.
Doesn't matter if it's inside the sphere
or outside. This is going to project
that vector to the closest point on the
sphere.
Then you take the delta again
and they should give you the reward.
I think this is right. We will see.
Okay,
See if this is uh more stable at all.
Yeah. So, this is clearly not what we
want, right?
16 core CPU is not good enough.
Otherwise, I would consider buying this
Okay. Well, that was even actually. Is
it worse?
See?
Okay. So, we need a transparent sphere
obviously.
move your steer later in the draw mode.
works like a charm.
So, uh, these guys are all going to the
very center though,
which is not the reward we were
expecting.
So, what is the likely cause of it? Um,
did I define this not way? I think I
did.
going outside for a bit. What's that?
And we'll check back in later. Good
luck. Thank you.
the closest point on a sphere.
Right?
No,
it shouldn't be negative here. This
should actually just be positive.
I honestly I normally do, but the thing
is it's brutally hot here. And also I've
got a bad knee, so I'm not really
running. I'm mostly biking and rowing.
So I honest I have not been outside in 3
days.
Just straight up
I probably should. It would probably do
wonders.
Let's see if this does it.
Oh yeah, much better. Look at this. You
see this?
Isn't this it? Yeah. They're like
basically on the surface of the sphere,
right?
Pretty cool.
We got to make it way better than this.
But you kind of get the idea, right, of
what we're going for here.
Make the radius a little larger.
That's a solid start.
As always, as soon as you get the data
right, it works. As soon as you get the
data right, it just works.
I'm going to use the restroom real
quick. Quick set of pull-ups.
If I go outside, I might walk outside
for a minute or two. See?
And uh and then I will continue on this.
I'll be right back. Oh yeah. Um in the
meantime, if you haven't read this
article yet,
doing quite well. So apparently a lot of
folks like it um
is on X RL on a pabyte of data. My
handle. Be right back.
Okay.
must be
uh you made an instance of the env as an
env creator.
So it's expecting a function that makes
an N and you gave it an N instead.
So, it tells you right there with the uh
the API usage error, you're not passing
it the thing it expects.
That's what's going wrong.
No, you don't need to make a wrapper.
Literally just pass like pass pi squared
instead of calling it.
You can pass the class as well. Just
need to pass a callable.
There's an n creator function. Every n
has an n creator function you can pass.
And you should just be able to pass the
class as well. Either should work.
They still flock at the poles. Yeah,
because they're allowed to do that with
the current reward.
does
how can I convert n to n creator
n creator is a callable function yeah
just you literally just have to delete
like the thing that you did there so you
got pi squared from somewhere you don't
have to call it you can just pass I
squared without the open close.
You don't have like you just pass the
class that'll do it or like a class or a
function doesn't matter.
70k views on this uh technical article
is pretty good.
Honey,
article's doing well.
Uh,
must be Z is up,
I guess.
what to pass as end name.
Uh I believe it's puffer squared all
lowercase.
Okay, so this works.
Custom end of not ocean.
Pi squared is an ocean end, isn't it?
Oh, puffer pi. Hang on.
Yeah, it's puffer pi squared like this
for that environment. It's in ocean.
Okay, so this vortex effect is good.
What if it's a custom end?
Uh, if it's a custom M, then you're
going to have to like you're going to
have to go lower level basically because
here
Yeah. So this is the entire sweep
function
right here. That's it. So you can see
this is designed to load configs for
like existing environments.
So if you want to do something that's
more custom than what we allow with
this, you can just use this bit of code,
right? You can use this bit of code
which will still use the other things in
puffl
and then you can just provide like your
custom config and creator in here.
What are you simulating? This is a whole
bunch of drones. So these are
quadcopters. They have uh physics for
force generated by each motor, like each
of the four motors.
And I'm trying to get them to like nice
and cleanly uh go in a spherical pattern
with the reinforcement learning.
Okay. So if I have
I probably
probably like a density reward thing
going on, right?
Let's do like five.
Awesome. Yeah, this is a new thing from
today. I kind of like I reused the
physics from the existing drone sim and
uh we're seeing if we can get them to do
like coordinated like semicoordinated
worm type behavior.
Why are you not
using simulated environments like for
example Ross 2 or Majoko? Because both
of those are roughly speaking about a
thousand times slower than our code.
They're like ridiculously slow bloated
sims.
We are training at millions of steps per
second at the moment. That is not
something that you will ever see out of
any of those. Heck, even the GPU
versions of those are nowhere near as
fast as this.
That remaining two hours when finished a
bug.
Uh minor oversight. Yeah, it breaks at
the very end when it runs eval like it
goes negative or whatever.
for master's degree final projects
related with simulated environment where
I'll be using RL for moving a robot.
Cool. Uh
we just added manny skill bindings.
So that's like still 100x slower than
our environments, but we don't really do
we don't really do like full robotic
sims uh of our own. So I think manny
skill is probably the best thing I've
seen out in that space.
And what about py monk?
Any interest on physics base? Is it
fast?
Like the thing is yes, but like
if I wanted to actually do physics sims
correctly in puffer, it's not going to
be a quick project because I wouldn't
just like grab some physics engine. I
would go way lower level than that and
see what I can actually make fast
because basically like all of the
existing simulators are just wrapping
some engine and like I don't believe
that they have to be as slow as they
are.
Okay. Uh this actually looks way better
just from that reward change.
Can I do like
I up this to one?
Let's see if this is too bad.
thing is still going a little bit.
71,000.
Hey, good article.
8865 as well. like plus uh
at least plus 100 followers I think from
that.
This is hilarious.
Okay,
this is good, right?
Let's see if we can get the logs to be
more even.
Articles are reached. No, a lot of the
articles don't do very well. They take
quite a bit of work.
They do take quite a bit of work. In
fact,
okay, so this is way better.
Much more stable.
Yeah. So, this is kind of weird how this
is working.
What is the ideal score under That's
Like this is not as good as the other
one. Yeah.
pretty low value loss.
So, the thing I'm a little confused on
here, right, is uh the way the reward is
structured, it's actually kind of tough
get like a global perfect
or
Oh, we just have to This is actually not
hard. Hang on.
We just present it one. We just present
it.
know what we do.
Perfect.
See if this works. So, the idea here is
that this is
uh this is actually going to tell us how
close you are to the optimal, not like
Yeah, this will tell us how close you
are to the optimal, which is sort of the
it's the same as the reward being
trained on in a sense.
It's harder to learn, but it's more
accurate for Eval. So, let's let's see
if this does something more reasonable
for us.
Okay, so this score variable,
this keeps going up.
Cool.
We'll see uh the difference quite
readily here, right?
These episode returns are very similar
and they don't look like great. It's
kind of hard to tell what's happening,
but then we we go by score.
We have a clean learning curve.
Okay. So, how do we get this to be
better.
Are they missing observation data for
this task?
Guess it would be nice to have the
reward components maybe.
Not missing data other than that though.
Try uh just one other thing here.
This should just be hover.
We'll see if they do that successfully.
Evidently the uh Yeah, that's not what I
expected, but it makes sense that I it
does that
funny.
I think what I'd like to do is see if I
can get this sim to have like a few
different obvious tasks for the drones
and uh have it be like interactive so
you can kind of play with them.
We can do like hover orbit.
and follow maybe
hover, orbit, and follow would be decent
ones, I'd say.
I'm studying Sutton's reinforcement
learning book. Well,
a whole bunch of math.
Oh, this is
is the previous position.
Just use this
We're going to make this like an
interactive thing. I guess this is kind
of like an evolution of some of the
other multi-agent MS I've done, but now
it's going to actually be with drones
and we're going to make it like nice and
interactive. I think we'll do it so that
like
we're going to see if we can jointly
train the agents on a bunch of different
tasks pretty much
and then have you be able to select a
test time.
Yeah. And we'll just randomize at the
end level on reset.
Okay, it looks like it's learned
something here. Well, whatever it's
learned here is uh is what the actual
task is because these scores are good.
So this should just be Yeah, this is
just the hover task. So the drones learn
to hover.
That works perfectly.
Yes.
Basic hover task.
Obviously I have some visual stuff to
fix, but pretty good.
Let's do
task idle. Task idle will just be fly
around at max velocity.
This is literally just fly around at max
velocity.
Subject to the other constraints of not
crashing and stuff.
batch size must be you set the batch
size to something tiny then didn't you?
Yeah, you set you set the batch size to
something tiny and the mini batch size
to something bigger than the batch size.
Did you like change the parameters?
Because I don't think we have a batch
size that small anywhere by default.
We shouldn't at the very least
app size is a config parameter
articles. Still going.
73k.
Holy.
batch size is auto.
Okay. Then do you have like a tiny
number of environments?
Because auto batch size will just take
the number of environments and multiply
by BPT horizon.
PPT Horizon.
Uh, this is weird.
Yes, you've got two environments. That
is a very silly number of environments
to have. I don't know, even if you're on
like a CPU for that, like set like at
least 128 or something.
Tiny number of environments.
Uh, this should not be the same thing.
Something is weird here.
Okay, what about this follow task?
We know how to do the follow task,
right?
Just have to make a target point.
You just do like vect 3
target pause.
there.
Easy.
So, this has a pretty negative score.
Okay. So, they do hover, which is weird.
We'll fix that.
But for now,
add four to this 28.
Now they can see their task
and uh yeah this should already be task
randomized training
backend serial multi which one is better
and when we pretty much always use
multipprosting except we use serial to
debug.
Just have to make sure you have a
reasonable number of processes. Like our
defaults are usually set up to use
between two and eight processes.
We'll make this part of the demo.
This guy.
Oh, wait.
The goal is that we just add a few
different drone tasks in here
and uh we train something that can do
all of them.
Okay. So it starts here.
Got to print the task.
bite and float.
You doing like a different policy type
or something
just that the data is coming back from
the environment in like a bite format
when it should come back as float. So,
it needs to be dot floated, which should
be handled automatically by the default
policy, but I don't know what you're
doing in your setup.
Opened PR for that remainder issue.
Oh, thanks.
Uh, let me see how you did this.
This is fine. I suppose we can just do
this.
Thank you.
[Music]
Uh, What?
Yes.
Static list of strings.
Hell is this?
Whatever.
Oh, it actually does change, but it
changes for one frame. I can see it.
Why does it do that?
But how the heck does it get reset?
28.
Okay. So, it's I can see the text
flashes for a second.
I can't see what to
Heck.
What's wrong with this
bizarre
Yeah, it is changing. It's changing back
somehow.
Oh,
silly me.
I don't know how I messed that up.
If
oh,
had to do it.
That's really stupid.
Okay, that works.
We run setup.
Hey, Muhammad. Welcome.
see what this does now.
Okay, so this is the idle task where
they're just kind of like doing
whatever.
Oh no, that's not an idle task.
Apparently they do that.
thing.
Possibly this just needs to be trained
longer because this is four tasks.
But let me let me look at that.
That's a very legitimate possibility.
Not optimized either.
Use a restroom while this trains real
quick and we'll see what this does.
Okay. So, this does
actually improve.
We'll see to what extent.
Okay, this is the orbit task. It's not
converged. It's like roughly doing
something.
Yeah, the idle task, not subeno
task.
No good.
Draw small sphere at the follow target.
Okay, we can now do the individual
tasks.
Oh, you know why? I know why this
doesn't work. Actually, I know exactly
how to fix this.
It wasn't randomizing during training.
We'll see what difference this uh
produces.
Technically, it might not do anything
super crazy.
Hard to say.
If this doesn't work, then we'll go one
by one.
Be able to get something today.
This
Oh, cool.
Well, this definitely did something.
I don't know if I would call it an
improvement.
At least it does. It does actually
random uh reset correctly, I would
suppose. Now,
so again, if this doesn't work, we go
one by one in the tasks and then if it
works with all the tasks and doesn't
work together, it's probably just a
matter of training it for longer.
Yeah, this looks pretty similar. Kind of
just a noisy version.
Comment
Every so often I make a stupid comment
on something and it's like gets way more
attention than I intended.
Okay. So, I don't think this worked, but
we'll see.
Yeah, that's not orbiting behavior,
right? It's really crappy.
one at a time. And now they don't need
uh ridiculous amounts of experience
anymore.
200 mil.
It'll hover orbit follow.
Get rid of this mess.
This was the joint one.
Now, this will be the
individual one,
and we'll see whether it's like one
problem task messing up learning or
what's going on There.
Okay, this one doesn't look very good,
right?
Oh, you dummy. You didn't Okay, so I
didn't actually redo setup. That's why.
Try again.
Yes, we know the original's consistent.
Okay. So, this is a very different
curve. Yeah,
this looks good.
Ah, this is the issue. My reward
function apparently sucks.
Evidently this gets very high reward.
What if we just give them zero?
You can literally do whatever you want.
Just don't fly off the screen or like
smash into each other.
Okay,
no reward. I think we're not including
some uh calcs in here.
I think we're probably screwing this up.
Let's see.
Yeah. So right here
I do add a log here though.
Whatever. Let's see what this guy does.
They kind of just do whatever they feel
like, right?
It's a pretty cool thing for them to do,
right? They just kind of hang around, do
whatever.
Okay.
Ask cover.
Okay, this one has very negative initial
weird behavior.
Go back up or do we just get stuck?
Looks like we don't go back up in time,
huh?
Okay.
Uh, why would this happen?
Perfectly reasonable reward.
Seem like it.
Just need to train longer. like
pretty nice that this thing runs at this
at the very least.
Yeah, it does actually just crash. It's
weird.
Oh, it crashes in the process of
thing.
Yeah, it crashes like in the process of
learning not to crash into walls. The
rest of this floor gets messed up thing.
We'll just see what this does. Yeah,
I figure out how to balance all these.
issue by the way because of final eval
save the global
tap and reset after it
issue is by the way because of the final
oh that
save the global step and reset. You
can't actually reset there
messes up other things.
I I probably just have to readjust a
little bit. There are a few small things
like this, right? There are a few small
cosmetic things like this that uh mess
things up.
Okay. So, this works, right? They hover.
Yeah. Took them a little longer to
figure it out, but they hover.
So, that's So far,
that's two down, two to go.
And then we have to do the uh the fun
thing of figuring out how to get them to
go together.
Love how simple it was to get Puffer
running. Thank you. I try to make it
easy.
I really do.
Currently, I'm distracted by trying to
get a puffer to do a whole bunch of like
real world apps to build out business
side of stuff. So, we're doing drones,
we're doing some little robotics things,
we're doing a bunch of other stuff,
which I forgot to send a message.
Well, this looks like it's scoring well.
So, orbit probably doing okay. Yeah.
probably should rescale all the rewards
a bit.
I want to make sure that they actually
work first for follow.
Just do
That's fine.
Okay, this is orbit. Orbit works.
A pretty good policy. Looks cool. We're
happy.
Follow
kind of stuck on torch error what
the environment worked uh before right
like before you started doing CLI uh
before you started doing stuff from the
interface so what's happening most
likely is that the data is not coming in
as floats to the policy you might have
to cast it to float manually depending
on what you're doing. Observation data
is not guaranteed to be float.
You should like stick a breakpoint in
there and see where it's happening.
You'll see where like the data is not
being cast correctly cuz like we can't
give you all the observation data in
floats because it's slower.
That make sense? It's slower at like to
move floats onto the GPU than it is to
move bytes. So sometimes we give you
bites.
policy devices CPU.
Yeah, that's that is different though.
Device and data type are different.
Okay, we get this. This thing is good.
Bounces somehow.
error comes from forward eval likely
because the data is not being passed to
it in a reasonable format.
Are using a custom policy
Yeah, pi squared trains for the defaults
here.
See,
that's pure Python training at 500k.
Almost ups a second.
What do you think about a device auto
detection?
It's a little annoying because it messes
up
multiGPU.
Um,
it defaults to CUDA on everything, I'm
pretty sure,
doesn't it?
Like it'll default to CUDA on like a CPU
non-MAC machine as well.
I not have it on the first line of the
docks.
I could probably add a dash device to
here
real quick.
I could do that.
I'm surprised I don't have that there.
Okay,
I can add dash train device to that.
Hang on.
Yeah, I was thinking of doing that, but
actually
it's a little bit more annoying and
complicated to list them out
because like you can technically you can
do like CUDA 1, CUDA 2, and then there's
other like niche stuff.
You can give it anything that's a valid
device.
I can do that. It's like
it's slightly misleading though.
I can do like this.
Uh, you know what?
Do that.
There you go.
Happy with that.
That was a fine.
We just want to make the uh the target
bounce around a bunch.
That's what we want. We want to reverse
the direction, right?
Yep. That's a nice like bouncing
behavior, right?
Yeah, bouncing's really easy to make
look reasonable.
solve type issue.
What was the issue?
Yeah. So, like I said, right, some
observations weren't getting cast a
float.
Our trainer normally does that for you.
You're doing some custom thing. It might
not happen.
Uh, it can't observe the target. Pause.
That's kind of a problem, isn't it?
pretty good.
If that does it
Do you think this could be a performance
issue?
Uh, yes. If I were to do that, if I were
to make all of the environments return
floats instead of bytes, so that can't
happen, it would in fact be a
performance issue and a pretty major
one.
There's a good reason why it is that
way. And like again, our trainer does
handle it for you. Uh normally our
trainer does handle that for you as
well.
Possibly
the object fast
learning
on sweep. It's not implemented. I don't
know what that what you mean by that.
Trainer is good, right?
Since my speed my speedboat idea was a
flop, how about a doom and there is a
doom environment. It's vizdoom.
Uh we've gotten it to train at like a
reasonable enough speedish.
It's like okay,
but it doesn't really do much for us on
applications, right?
Like solving Doom doesn't even do
anything for us at all
on the business side at least. It's like
cool core research,
but it like it doesn't really like
translate to anything else directly.
Pain issue, right?
You have ideas? Well, you see I'm
working on drone stuff at the moment.
Oh, this is pretty good, right?
Follow us.
Obviously, we need to like prevent them
from colliding.
But so far, that's like a decent enough
starting point.
Hey, Finn.
Yeah, we've got we have like a several
different tasks that we can train the
drones for, and I'm going to try to
train them to do all of them at the same
time
with one model. We'll see.
Oh, I did this backwards, didn't I?
Drone seeing
as XY or pixels. It's getting relative
offsets.
So it's getting relative XY.
Even when we do real hardware, we're
probably not going to do direct pixels.
We're going to do like some data
extracted from pixels and then RL on
state.
Pixels are just super obnoxious. So
slow.
You can do it. It's not harder. It's
just lower.
I need offset cuz if you do stuff in
absolute coordinates, it's just harder
to learn. You have to learn like all
possible combinations of mappings. It's
a lot more robust and easier to learn if
you use relative positions.
Okay. Well, not a super encouraging
graph. We'll see if it picks up though.
We probably need to normalize all the
rewards for
Let me look at that.
What's like the tan HF function that
they use
or t function they use in man scale?
Look.
1 - tanh of distance.
I mean, they just want a squashing
function to normalize it with.
short-term reward is key to learn
faster.
Well, it helps.
Definitely helps.
Yeah. So, this is learning
This is orbit. I guess
this is idle. So do whatever you guys
want.
Follow. Follow works.
Hover.
Oh, that actually they do. They kind of
they go back to their originals
positions. Look at that. And then they
hover there.
I mean, this is not bad
for a first run.
Multitask learning kind of works.
into that prototype something.
Uh I think that the next thing for
drones, so we have more sim stuff we can
do. I think the biggest thing is going
to be getting it onto the actual
hardware.
The tough bit.
I've kind of just like been doing this
to see what we can do once we have more
of them.
Let me see what we can. Is it 528 here?
Um,
yeah. Let's just say that I'll I'll
spend the next little bit of this
the next little bit on this just
tweaking this and then maybe after
dinner I'll do some other stuff. We'll
see.
really like the TN idea.
your reward.
It's not even fully correct.
I come up with good normalization
factors here.
This should be a much better
uh metric I believe.
This should at least be better.
We'll see if this still learns.
more physics stuff. Me and Sam will add
from the Zurich paper. Oh, awesome. That
should be pretty easy to port in as
well.
I'm trying to make us like an extra I'd
like us to ideally have multiple
different drone adjacent demos kind of
to start to build up stuff in this
space.
Holy 590 on this
very good article for me.
Yeah, that's like the one thing I don't
want to RL is like maximum content
watchability.
Like that shit's going to get added to
the Geneva Convention at some point.
Mark my words.
It's kind of like a good analog to this,
right? Would be like,
okay, imagine that you RL heroin. All
right, heroin happens to be super
addictive, right? But what if you RL a
version of it that's like literally
impossible to quit? And then you go,
well, it's your choice to take the
stuff, but it's literally impossible to
quit because it's
it's like that kind of a thing where
it's like, well, yeah, you have free
will. You can do whatever, even though
we've literally designed this to hack
your biological reward signals, right?
No thanks. I'm good.
Like I have no problem doing defense
type work.
That type of stuff, screw that.
The targeted ads are honestly not that
bad. Um the targeted like shorts and
stuff are awful.
any suggestions.
Yeah. So, this is not bad.
Oh yeah, that's actually better.
Way more stable. We'll see if the
behaviors are good.
Looks like new reward function style
works.
No environment scores coming from
importable sweep
on Neptune.
Uh, depends on the environment.
Uh, you might have to give that a
second.
The metrics on Neptune can take a second
to show up. should see some metrics,
right?
If you see it on the terminal and it's
set up correctly, like you should see it
on Neptune after a again.
Okay, so orbit doesn't work great on
this run.
10 minutes. So, no, nothing shows on
terminal.
Pi squared.
Let me see what metrics this has.
Okay, pi squared doesn't have score.
It's like a trivial environment. It just
has this reward. So, you should see
reward there. That's the only metric for
this end. The metrics that show up in
Neptune for ENV are the same as the
metrics that show up on this dashboard.
All
right. So, we're going to do this orbit
thing.
Carl's fun when it works.
It works very, very well in puffer lip.
you're like new to the space it seems.
So like it yeah it's going to take a
little getting used to but I mean if you
see like
by comparison to the other stuff out
there you will see this is considered
like very very very much working.
How many followers did we end up out of
this article?
Oh, yeah. That's
It's going to be over 9,000 soon.
I'm thinking maybe over the weekend I
might write the quick start guide. We're
going to see how I'm feeling. I might do
it on stream. I don't know.
I might feel like just writing the quick
start guide on stream. We'll see
cuz everybody always asks me for like
intro materials.
I'm thinking I do one guide that just
has sections that takes you from like
whatever starting point you're at all
the way up to this is how to contribute
productively to RL research and like
actually apply it to hard problems.
Because I'm new. You can help beta test
it for sure.
write doc.
Well, I mean, I'm going to write
likeistically
I'm going to write it the way that I
write stuff, right?
Yeah, I think we just need to tune the
sphere reward a little bit and then
we're we should be good.
Was
this backwards?
No, this is correct.
Drone stuff. Yeah, it's there.
Oh, this density reward needs to not be
here.
When will you be back after dinner?
Uh, I don't know. Depends. I will
probably come back right after dinner.
It just depends how I'm feeling.
Like I also haven't gotten in any like
good weightlifting in several days.
I don't always I don't always work until
10.
Right. Starter guide this week. I might
do it over the weekend. It just depends
on how everything else lines up, right?
Depends what other work is high
priority.
Oh, yeah. It is 550. So, um, for folks
watching, I got to run to dinner in a
couple minutes. Uh, if you're interested
in all this work, though, and you're new
around here,
puffer.ai for all the things.
It's all open source. You can help me
out for free just by starting the
repository. You can also follow on X. If
you want to get involved with
development, we have lots of brand new
RL people in here. Discord.gg/puffer
or click this button.
do it on the 4th of July. Uh my family
is going to be visiting tomorrow.
They'll probably be here like tomorrow
evening. We might have stuff to do on
the 4th. I'm not sure yet.
But if I uh you know, if if it makes
sense, then yeah, I can do it on I can
probably start writing on the fourth. I
mean, it depends, right, man? It's like
I don't if I like if I wake up and I'm
like, "Yeah, I don't like I'm not
feeling like writing today." I'm not
going to force it cuz it's not going to
be good.
A lot of like the benefit of the
flexibility I have with my schedule
working on all this is I kind of just
work on the stuff that I'm currently the
most motivated to do
and it's a lot more productive that way.
Big day for our USA friends.
I don't know. We kind of just like go
get a good dinner and whatever.
And depending on what state you're in
depends on how many fireworks there are.
But yeah, freedom day.
Okay. So, they don't actually want to
orbit because
this interesting Okay.
That's why I'm asking.
Yeah. I It's like the thing is I don't I
don't keep a schedule in the way that
you expect you'd expect.
Yeah. I'll like I'll notify on Discord
or whatever.
like my work is very much organic,
right? Like I'll write an article when
it's like ah I have an article that I
think I could write and I'm in the mood
to write it, right?
I don't know. I personally I find
creative work like really hard to force.
You have a normal job?
I believe so. I don't know.
Uh, how do I know the radius of the
drone?
Is there like a drone size or something?
Like roughly if I just want to make like
a collision radius.
0.3
looks like
arm length
is 0.1. So it's two times thatish. So
like we'll do 0.3.
We'll try like this.
This is don't run into each other.
will join nightstream. Yeah, we'll see
how I'm feeling. I might be back for uh
night. I also might like do like a sport
gym session and then come back. I don't
know. Depends.
This is stable at least.
All right.
Decent.
Okay, sphere still needs work.
Spear definitely still needs work.
I could probably just do it as like a
point
like a point following thing, right?
It would look way better.
I might do it that way. We'll see. All
right,
I'm going to head to dinner. Thank you
for tuning in, folks. Star the puffer on
GitHub. stars. He's hungry